docs/pages/integrations/django/index.md, before:

# :simple-django: Django Integration

Wireup provides seamless integration with Django through the `wireup.integration.django` module, enabling
dependency injection in Django applications.


<div class="grid cards annotate" markdown>

-   :material-cog-refresh:{ .lg .middle } __Automatic Dependency Management__

    ---

    Inject dependencies in routes and automatically manage container lifecycle.


-   :material-web-check:{ .lg .middle } __Request Objects__

    ---

    Use Django request in Wireup dependencies.


-   :material-clock-fast:{ .lg .middle } __Django Settings__

    ---

    The integration exposes Django settings to Wireup as parameters.


-   :material-share-circle:{ .lg .middle } __Shared business logic__

    ---

    Wireup is framework-agnostic. Share the service layer between web applications and other interfaces, such as a CLI.
</div>

### Initialize the integration

Add the following to Django settings:

```python title="settings.py"
import os
from wireup.integration.django import WireupSettings

INSTALLED_APPS = [
    # ...existing code...
    "wireup.integration.django"
]

MIDDLEWARE = [
    "wireup.integration.django.wireup_middleware",
    # ...existing code...
]

WIREUP = WireupSettings(
    service_modules=["mysite.polls.services"]  # Service modules here
)

# Additional application settings
S3_BUCKET_TOKEN = os.environ["S3_BUCKET_ACCESS_TOKEN"]
```

### Inject Django settings

Django settings can be injected into services:

```python title="mysite/polls/services/s3_manager.py"
from wireup import service, Inject
from typing import Annotated

@service
class S3Manager:
    def __init__(
        self,
        # Reference configuration by name
        token: Annotated[str, Inject(param="S3_BUCKET_TOKEN")],
    ) -> None: ...

    def upload(self, file: File) -> None: ...
```

You can also use Django settings in factories:

```python title="mysite/polls/services/github_client.py"
from wireup import service
from django.conf import settings

class GithubClient:
    def __init__(self, api_key: str) -> None: ...

@service
def github_client_factory() -> GithubClient:
    return GithubClient(api_key=settings.GH_API_KEY)
```

### Inject the current request

The integration exposes the current Django request as a `scoped` lifetime dependency, which can be injected
into `scoped` or `transient` services:

```python title="mysite/polls/services/auth_service.py"
from django.http import HttpRequest
from wireup import service

@service(lifetime="scoped")
class AuthService:
    def __init__(self, request: HttpRequest) -> None:
        self.request = request
```

### Inject dependencies in views

To inject dependencies in views, simply request them by their type:

```python title="app/views.py"
from django.http import HttpRequest, HttpResponse
from mysite.polls.services import S3Manager
from wireup import Injected

def upload_file_view(
    request: HttpRequest, 
    s3_manager: Injected[S3Manager]
) -> HttpResponse:
    # Use the injected S3Manager instance
    return HttpResponse(...)
```

Class-based views are also supported. Specify dependencies in the class `__init__` function.

For more examples, see the [Wireup Django integration tests](https://github.com/maldoinc/wireup/tree/master/test/integration/django/view.py).

#### Non core-django views (eg, Django REST framework)
If your project use a third-party packages to create views, such as [Django REST framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/), you must use the `@inject` decorator explicitly.

```python title="app/views.py"
from rest_framework.decorators import api_view
from rest_framework.request import Request
from rest_framework.response import Response
from rest_framework.views import APIView
from rest_framework.viewsets import ViewSet

from wireup import Injected
from wireup.integration.django import inject

from mysite.polls.services import S3Manager


@api_view(("GET",))
@inject
def drf_function_based_view(request: Request, s3_manager: Injected[S3Manager]) -> Response:
    # Use the injected S3Manager instance
    return Response(...)


class DRFClassBasedView(APIView):
    @inject
    def get(self, request: Request, s3_manager: Injected[S3Manager]) -> Response:
    # Use the injected S3Manager instance
    return Response(...)


class DRFViewSet(ViewSet):
    @inject
    def list(self, request: Request, greeter: Injected[GreeterService]) -> Response:
    # Use the injected S3Manager instance
    return Response(...)
```

If your project share core and non core-django views it's strongly recommended to use `@inject` across all your views for consistency.

### Accessing the container

To access the Wireup container directly, use the following functions:

```python
from wireup.integration.django import get_app_container, get_request_container

# Get application-wide container
app_container = get_app_container()

# Get request-scoped container
request_container = get_request_container()
```

### Testing

For general testing tips with Wireup refer to the [test docs](../../testing.md). 
With Django you can override dependencies in the container as follows:

```python title="test_thing.py"
from wireup.integration.django import get_app_container

def test_override():
    class DummyGreeter(GreeterService):
        def greet(self, name: str):
            return f"Hi, {name}"

    with get_app_container().override.service(GreeterService, new=DummyGreeter()):
        res = self.client.get("/greet?name=Test")
        assert res.status_code == 200
```

### API Reference

* [django_integration](../../class/django_integration.md)

Commit message:

preventing multiple injections in django class-based views

docs/pages/integrations/django/index.md, after:

# :simple-django: Django Integration

Wireup provides seamless integration with Django through the `wireup.integration.django` module, enabling
dependency injection in Django applications.


<div class="grid cards annotate" markdown>

-   :material-cog-refresh:{ .lg .middle } __Automatic Dependency Management__

    ---

    Inject dependencies in routes and automatically manage container lifecycle.


-   :material-web-check:{ .lg .middle } __Request Objects__

    ---

    Use Django request in Wireup dependencies.


-   :material-clock-fast:{ .lg .middle } __Django Settings__

    ---

    The integration exposes Django settings to Wireup as parameters.


-   :material-share-circle:{ .lg .middle } __Shared business logic__

    ---

    Wireup is framework-agnostic. Share the service layer between web applications and other interfaces, such as a CLI.
</div>

### Initialize the integration

Add the following to Django settings:

```python title="settings.py"
import os
from wireup.integration.django import WireupSettings

INSTALLED_APPS = [
    # ...existing code...
    "wireup.integration.django"
]

MIDDLEWARE = [
    "wireup.integration.django.wireup_middleware",
    # ...existing code...
]

WIREUP = WireupSettings(
    service_modules=["mysite.polls.services"]  # Service modules here
)

# Additional application settings
S3_BUCKET_TOKEN = os.environ["S3_BUCKET_ACCESS_TOKEN"]
```

### Inject Django settings

Django settings can be injected into services:

```python title="mysite/polls/services/s3_manager.py"
from wireup import service, Inject
from typing import Annotated

@service
class S3Manager:
    def __init__(
        self,
        # Reference configuration by name
        token: Annotated[str, Inject(param="S3_BUCKET_TOKEN")],
    ) -> None: ...

    def upload(self, file: File) -> None: ...
```

You can also use Django settings in factories:

```python title="mysite/polls/services/github_client.py"
from wireup import service
from django.conf import settings

class GithubClient:
    def __init__(self, api_key: str) -> None: ...

@service
def github_client_factory() -> GithubClient:
    return GithubClient(api_key=settings.GH_API_KEY)
```

### Inject the current request

The integration exposes the current Django request as a `scoped` lifetime dependency, which can be injected
into `scoped` or `transient` services:

```python title="mysite/polls/services/auth_service.py"
from django.http import HttpRequest
from wireup import service

@service(lifetime="scoped")
class AuthService:
    def __init__(self, request: HttpRequest) -> None:
        self.request = request
```

### Inject dependencies in views

To inject dependencies in views, simply request them by their type:

```python title="app/views.py"
from django.http import HttpRequest, HttpResponse
from mysite.polls.services import S3Manager
from wireup import Injected

def upload_file_view(
    request: HttpRequest, 
    s3_manager: Injected[S3Manager]
) -> HttpResponse:
    # Use the injected S3Manager instance
    return HttpResponse(...)
```

Class-based views are also supported. Specify dependencies in the class `__init__` function.

For more examples, see the [Wireup Django integration tests](https://github.com/maldoinc/wireup/tree/master/test/integration/django/view.py).

#### Non core-django views (eg, Django REST framework)
If your project uses third-party packages to create views, such as [Django REST framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/), you must use the `@inject` decorator explicitly.

```python title="app/views.py"
from rest_framework.decorators import api_view
from rest_framework.request import Request
from rest_framework.response import Response
from rest_framework.views import APIView
from rest_framework.viewsets import ViewSet

from wireup import Injected
from wireup.integration.django import inject

from mysite.polls.services import S3Manager


@api_view(("GET",))
@inject
def drf_function_based_view(request: Request, s3_manager: Injected[S3Manager]) -> Response:
    # Use the injected S3Manager instance
    return Response(...)


class DRFClassBasedView(APIView):
    @inject
    def get(self, request: Request, s3_manager: Injected[S3Manager]) -> Response:
        # Use the injected S3Manager instance
        return Response(...)


class DRFViewSet(ViewSet):
    @inject
    def list(self, request: Request, greeter: Injected[GreeterService]) -> Response:
        # Use the injected S3Manager instance
        return Response(...)
```

If your project shares core and non core-django views it's strongly recommended to use `@inject` across all your views for consistency.

!!! warning "Don't mix injection approaches in Django class-based views"
    When using `@inject` on methods, do not also use `Injected[]` annotations in `__init__`. 
    Pick one approach: either use `@inject` on methods, or rely on auto-injection for `__init__` parameters.

### Accessing the container

To access the Wireup container directly, use the following functions:

```python
from wireup.integration.django import get_app_container, get_request_container

# Get application-wide container
app_container = get_app_container()

# Get request-scoped container
request_container = get_request_container()
```

### Testing

For general testing tips with Wireup refer to the [test docs](../../testing.md). 
With Django you can override dependencies in the container as follows:

```python title="test_thing.py"
from wireup.integration.django import get_app_container

def test_override():
    class DummyGreeter(GreeterService):
        def greet(self, name: str):
            return f"Hi, {name}"

    with get_app_container().override.service(GreeterService, new=DummyGreeter()):
        res = self.client.get("/greet?name=Test")
        assert res.status_code == 200
```

### API Reference

* [django_integration](../../class/django_integration.md)
